this is the tundra even trees struggle
to take root in the icy soil
but life is possible even here
an Arctic ground squirrel he spends his
entire winter asleep out like a light
for eight months straight the longest
deepest hibernation of any animal on
earth this extreme lifestyle can only be
seen using a special filming burrow he's
pretty much stopped breathing
his heart is barely beating the Sun is
getting higher every day
in the darkness of his burrow
the squirrels body clock drags him out
of bed there's no time to waste
last time he saw it back in the autumn
this was his territory now he's got to
fight for it all over again
for the next two weeks you'll barely
have time even to eat
[Music]
it's a constant battle to keep rival
males off his turf
[Music]
there's a sense of anticipation in the
air
females a marriage a few days later he
won't want to miss his first date and
there she is
[Music]
but what's he doing she'll only be fair
tile for 12 hours in the entire year
there's no time for hesitation
[Music]
he cautiously makes his move she might
be in a hurry but she can still be
choosy
[Music]
he knows that while there are other
males around she could easily go off
with someone else so he won't leave her
sight for 24 hours
[Music]
and Alaskan spring moves fast and if you
don't seize the moment it will pass you
by
[Music]